.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oo-admin-ctl-gears.8
.\"
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.TH "OO-ADMIN-CTL-GEARS" "8" "2012-10-26" "OpenShift" "OpenShift Management Commands"
.SH NAME
oo-admin-ctl-gears \- Control the OpenShift gears hosted on this node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "oo-admin-ctl-gears {COMMAND} [gear uuid]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "oo-admin-ctl-gears"
may be used to control and check the status of the OpenShift gears hosted on this node
.SH OPTIONS
The following commands are understood:
.TP
.B "startall"
start all gears without .stop_lock files and their cartridges on this node.
This command uses multiple threads to start the gears as quickly as possible.
The results are recorded in a log file while the threads run in the background.
Control is returned to the terminal before the gears have been started.
.TP
.B "stopall"
stop all gears and their cartridges on this node
.TP
.B "restartall"
restart all gears and their cartridges on this node
.TP
.B "condrestartall"
start all gears if they have not already been started
.TP
.B "waited-startall"
start all gears without .stop_lock files and their components in the foreground.
Control will only be returned to the terminal after all the gears have been started.
.TP
.B "status"
shows a cartridge dependent status for each cartridge in each gear
.TP
.B "list"
list all the gears hosted on the node
.TP
.BI "startgear" " gear uuid"
start given gear's cartridges
.TP
.BI "stopgear" " gear uuid"
stop given gear's cartridges
.TP
.BI "stoplockgear" " --message MESSAGE gear uuid"
stop given gear's cartridges and write MESSAGE to the .stop_lock file.  As this is
.B "not"
expected behavior be sure to explain why you are ensuring this gear is not started in the future
in the MESSAGE.
.TP
.BI "restartgear" " gear uuid"
restart given gear's cartridges
.TP
.BI "idlegear" " gear uuid"
idle given gear's cartridges
.TP
.BI "unidlegear" " gear uuid"
unidle given gear's cartridges
.TP
.BI "listidle"
list the idle gears on the node
.SH EXIT STATUS
On success 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.
.SH FILES
.TP
.FN /var/lock/subsys/openshift-gears
The lock file used in support of the
.B condrestartall
command
.TP
.FN /var/log/openshift/node/platform.log
The gear and component cartridge output during a back-grounded start is recorded in this file.
.SH NOTES
.nr step 1 1
.IP \n[step] 2
.B restart
commands call the cartridge's restart command which may be optimized to
run faster than calling the stop and start commands.
.IP \n+[step] 2
Not all cartridges provide meaningful status.
.IP \n+[step] 2
.B oo-admin-ctl-gears
is of no value on a broker node that does not host gears.
.SH BUGS
The
.B status
command does not scale to a large number of hosted gears.
This will be corrected in a future version of the OpenShift product.
.SH SEE ALSO
openshift-gears(8),
openshift-gears.service(8)

