.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii oo-watchman.8
.\"
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.TH "OO-WATCHMAN" "8" "2014-01-10" "OpenShift" "OpenShift Management Commands"
.SH NAME
oo-watchman \- monitor the status and state of gears and cartridges
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "/etc/init.d/openshift-watchman {start|stop|restart|status}"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "oo-watchman"
Provides a plugin framework for monitoring the status and state of gears/cartridges on a node.
.P
Plugins inherit from the base class \fBWatchmanPlugin\fR implementing the optional methods
\fIinitialize()\fR and \fIapply()\fR.
The methods \fIidle()\fR, \fIstop()\fR, and \fIrestart()\fR are provided for
plugins to idle a gear, stop a gear or restart a gear. Stop attempts to just stop the running cartridge
daemons so operations like \fIgit push\fR should not be effected.
.P
A plugin may request a gear to change state no more than \fBGEAR_RETRIES\fR times within the \fBRETRY_PERIOD\fR
but no sooner than \fBRETRY_DELAY\fR. Additional requests made within the \fBRETRY_DELAY\fR or then the
\fBRETRY_PERIOD\fR are ignored.
.P
The scripts /etc/init.d/openshift-watchman and openshift-watchman.service are provided to start oo-watchman.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The program only returns when an exception is thrown
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B  GEAR_RETRIES
Number of restarts to attempt before waiting \fBRETRY_PERIOD\fR. Default: 3
.TP
.B  RETRY_DELAY
Number of seconds to wait before accepting another gear restart. Default: 300 seconds (5 minutes)
.TP
.B  RETRY_PERIOD
Number of seconds to wait before resetting retries. Default: 28800 seconds (8 hours)
.TP
.B  STATE_CHANGE_DELAY
Number of seconds a gear must remain inconsistent with its state before
Watchman attempts to reset state. Default: 900 seconds (15 minutes)
.TP
.B  STATE_CHECK_PERIOD
Wait at least this number of seconds since last check before checking gear state on the Node.
Increase this to reduce \fBWatchman\fR's impact on the system.
Default: 0 seconds
.TP
.B  THROTTLER_CHECK_PERIOD
Wait at least this number of seconds before checking gears' cgroup state on the Node.
Increase this to reduce \fBWatchman\fR's impact on the system.
Default: 5 seconds
.TP
.B  OOM_CHECK_PERIOD
Wait at least this number of seconds since last check before looking for gears under OOM.
Default: 0 seconds
.TP
.B  FRONTEND_CLEANUP_PERIOD
Wait at least this number of seconds since last check before cleaning up frontend http configuration files.
Default: 172800 seconds
.TP
.B LOG_FILE
General events logged to this file.
May be overridden with WATCHMAN_LOG_FILE in node.conf file.
Default: /var/log/openshift/node/watchman.log
.TP
.B LOG_LEVEL
Set level of logging.
May be overridden with WATCHMAN_LOG_LEVEL in node.conf file.
Valid values: DEBUG (most verbose), INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL (least verbose)
Default: INFO
.TP
.B
TRACE_LOG
Trace events logged to this file.
May be overridden with WATCHMAN_TRACE_LOG_FILE in node.conf file.
Default: /var/log/openshift/node/watchman-trace.log
.TP
.B
TRACE_LOG_LEVEL
Set trace level of logging.
May be overridden with WATCHMAN_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL in node.conf file.
Valid values: DEBUG (most verbose), INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL (least verbose)
Default: ERROR
.TP
.TP
.B  WATCHMAN_DEBUG
Boolean value to suggest printing debug messages in log.
e.g. printing memory usage after invocation of each plugin (logged in /var/log/messages)
Default: false
.SH FILES
.TP
.FN /etc/sysconfig/watchman
configuration file for overriding default settings of \fBENVIRONMENT\fR variables.
.TP
.FN /etc/openshift/node.conf
Node configuration elements
.TP
.FN /etc/openshift/watchman/plugins.d
Directory containing Watchman plugins. Location may be overridden in node.conf using by setting the
.B
WATCHMAN_PLUGIN_DIR
element. Only scripts ending in \fB.rb\fR are read.
.TP
.FN /var/log/watchman.log
Exceptions from openshift-watchman and oo-watchman are logged here
.TP
.FN /var/log/watchman.output
STDOUT and STDERR from openshift-watchman are logged here
.TP
.FN /var/log/messages
Watchman initiated changes in gear state or status is logged
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
The \fBSyslogPlugin\fR searches /var/log/messages for messages logged by cgroups when killing off a gear.
The gear is restarted, if needed.
.P
The \fBJbossPlugin\fR searches JBoss cartridges' server.log files for OutOfMemoryExceptions.
The gear is restarted, if needed.
.P
The \fBGearStatePlugin\fR attempts to ensure the current application state matches
the last state change for the application commanded by the user. It will restart applications
that have failed, or stop applications that are still running.
.P
The \fBThrottlerPlugin\fR monitors CPU usage via cgroups and restricts usage, if needed.
.P
The \fBFronendPlugin\fR monitors the frontend httpd proxy configuration files and removes configuration
files that have been truncated.
Truncation is used to provide a cleaner starting/stopping of httpd.
.SH SEE ALSO
