.TH logshifter 1 "September 2014" OpenShift "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
logshifter \- Log transport for OpenShift gear processes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fClogshifter\fR \fB\-tag\fP \fItagname\fP
.PP
\fB\fClogshifter\fR [ \fB\-config\fP \fI/etc/openshift/logshifter.conf\fP ] [ \fB\-statsfilename\fP \fI/tmp/logshifter.stats\fP ] [ \fB\-statsinterval\fP \fI2s\fP] [ \fB\-verbose\fP ] \fB\-tag\fP \fItagname\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A simple log pipe designed to maintain consistently high input consumption rates, preferring to
drop old messages rather than block the input producer.
.PP
The primary design goals are:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Minimal blocking of the input producer
.IP \(bu 2
Asynchronous dispatch of log events to an output
.IP \(bu 2
Sacrifice delivery rate for input processing consistency
.IP \(bu 2
Fixed maximum memory use as a factor of configurable buffer sizes
.IP \(bu 2
Pluggable and configurable outputs
.RE
.PP
logshifter is useful for capturing and redirecting output of heterogenous applications which
emit logs to stdout rather than to a downstream aggregator (e.g. syslog) directly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-config\fR \fIconfig\-file\fP
Specify configuration file path, default /etc/openshift/logshifter.conf
.TP
\fB\fC\-statsfilename\fR \fIstats\-file\fP
Filename for periodic stats output
.TP
\fB\fC\-statsinterval\fR \fI2s\fP
Interval at which to write stats
.TP
\fB\fC\-verbose\fR
Enable verbose output
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Here are some small examples to verify logshifter is writing events, using the default configuration
(which writes to syslog):
.PP
.RS
.nf
# single shot
echo hello world | logshifter \-tag myapp
# 10 messages @ 1 message/second
for i in {1..10}; do echo logshifter message ${i}; sleep 1; done | /tmp/logshifter \-tag myapp
# 30 messages @ 1 message/second with stats reporting every 2 seconds
for i in {1..30}; do echo logshifter message ${i}; sleep 1; done | /tmp/logshifter \-tag myapp \-statsfilename /tmp/logshifter.stats \-statsinterval 2s
.fi
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
.PP
An optional configuration file can be supplied to logshifter with the \fB\fC\-config\fR flag. The file
is a list of key value pairs in the format \fB\fCk = v\fR, one per line. Keys are case insensitive.
.PP
Configuration keys and their default values
.PP
   queueSize = 1000             # int    // size of the internal log message queue
   inputBufferSize = 2048       # int    // input up to \[rs]n or this number of bytes is considered a line
   outputType = syslog          # string // one of syslog, file, multi (syslog + file)
   syslogBufferSize = 2048      # int    // lines bound for syslog lines are split at this size
   fileBufferSize = 2048        # int    // lines bound for a file are split at this size
   outputTypeFromEnviron = true # bool   // allows outputtype to be overridden via LOGSHIFTER_OUTPUT_TYPE
.PP
If no \fB\fC\-config\fR flag is specified, logshifter will attempt to load a global config file from
\fB\fC/etc/openshift/logshifter.conf\fR\&. If no \fB\fC\-config\fR is specified, and the global config file doesn't
exist, a default syslog\-based configuration will be used.
.SH NOTES
.SH Rolling Files
.PP
When using the \fB\fCfile\fR writer, a simple file rolling behavior is enabled by default. The rolling
mechanism will roll files if the file size exceeds a threshold, and will retain a configurable
number of rolled files before removing the oldest prior to the next roll.
.PP
Rolling is configured by the \fB\fCLOGSHIFTER_$TAG_MAX_FILESIZE\fR and \fB\fCLOGSHIFTER_$TAG_MAX_FILES\fR
environment variables, where \fB\fC$TAG\fR is replaced by an uppercase string equal to the value of
the \fB\fC\-tag\fR argument.
.PP
The \fB\fCLOGSHIFTER_$TAG_MAX_FILESIZE\fR variable expects a case\-insensitive string representing the
maximum size of the file which triggers a roll event. Example values:
.PP
.RS
.nf
LOGSHIFTER_$TAG_MAX_FILESIZE=500K   # kilobytes
LOGSHIFTER_$TAG_MAX_FILESIZE=10M    # megabytes
LOGSHIFTER_$TAG_MAX_FILESIZE=2G     # gigabytes
LOGSHIFTER_$TAG_MAX_FILESIZE=1T     # terabytes
.fi
.RE
.PP
The default value is \fB\fC10M\fR\&. If a zero size is specified (regardless of the unit), rolling will be
effectively disabled.
.PP
The \fB\fCLOGSHIFTER_$TAG_MAX_FILES\fR variable is an integer representing the maximum number of log
files to retain. The default is 10.
.SH Statistics
.PP
Periodic stats can be emitted to a file using the \fB\fC\-statsfilename\fR argument.  The stats are written
in JSON format on an interval specified by \fB\fC\-statsinterval\fR (which is a string in a format expected
by the golang time.ParseDuration
\[la]http://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration\[ra] function).
.PP
Note that enabling statistics will introduce extra processing overhead.
.SH Building
.PP
Since logshifter lives inside the origin\-server repository, use the \fB\fCgo\fR tools with a relative
directory. Change your working directory to \fB\fCorigin\-server/logshifter\fR\&. To test:
.PP
.RS
.nf
go test \-v .
.fi
.RE
.PP
And to build:
.PP
.RS
.nf
go build \-o /tmp/logshifter .
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\[la]http://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration\[ra]
